ladies and gentlemen one of the greats
Jim Gaffigan hi sir thank you thank you
it's great to be here great to see you
man I'm excited that you're doing a
special on Amazon yeah I think it's
important that there's a bunch of other
platforms for all of us to do new
specials on and when a guy like you goes
over to Amazon legitimizes it makes it a
big deal
it's exciting yeah it's it's fascinating
how the the outlets for specials has
changed so dramatically because when we
were when we were kids it was just HBO
yeah and then Comedy Central when I
released beyond the pale it was at that
perfect moment where in every dorm room
in America Comedy Central was on yeah
you know it shifted from MTV to Comedy
Central practice of Chappelle and and
Jon Stewart and so but it's shifts you
know it's like the Netflix was big and
and we see these other platforms coming
out so it'll be it'll be interesting if
I can convince people because everyone
goes to Amazon or someone in their
family does so if I can convince them
the next time they're buying paper
towels and socks to just go over to
Prime because they everyone has a Prime
membership that's a weird part about it
right it's shopping but it's also like
the same as iTunes yeah people have
asked me like what if I you know will
one person ask me they're like what if
someone doesn't have a Prime membership
and I'm like then they're probably not
on the Internet who are you right they
probably can't afford even you know
high-speed Internet so it's like but I
don't know it is gonna be interesting
I've watched stuff on Prime but it's
like it's like every time you you know I
think comedians we like the we like to
explore and do things different you know
even you know new rooms and stuff like
that we we kind of are risk-averse but
there is always the possibility of like
I don't know I mean it comes out Friday
there is some support but I don't know
and I know that Amazon is this enormous
company but I don't know I don't know
they could I mean in the grand scheme of
things you know my special is really not
that be it's not as important as the
toothpicks they sell on Amazon so I
don't know if they're gonna get behind
it or not it's so weird that it's an
entertainment company and also a massive
shopping outlet I mean it's huge it's
two giant things it's like they do
support like mrs. Mazal oh yeah that
everywhere yeah so if they have a hit
they will get behind it and make
billboards and and I've see a lot for
flea bag as well I've seen a bunch of
ads for that so I think they're really
picking up their support but I haven't
seen any support so far for how many
specials are there that they've done
besides your yours comes out Friday mine
comes out Friday and then a week later
there's four that come out on so Boden
has one coming out for sure and there's
three other people with him and then I
don't know they you know there's also
something of you know the the free the
flow of information isn't as as dynamic
as you'd imagine because I'm like a nerd
for like if people follow me on
Instagram they're probably like yeah we
know you promote so it's like I'm not
shy about saying I'm coming to Atlantic
City and so I'm like hey when is this
going you know what how can I help in
there to like there's a little bit of an
attitude of like we've got it you're I
mean we know all the information there
is or they don't care I'm not sure yeah
I think they're probably overwhelmed
right it's probably a new thing or they
just you know some of how was explained
to me was I released nobly my special
before this independently we know
through a lot of different plan why'd
you decide well some of it was I I got
an offer that was attractive I knew that
I mean I I love Netflix I have five
specials there
but I kind of looked at Netflix I always
describe it as it's a it's a swimming
pool swimming pools are great that you
know a special having a special is kind
of like a floaties but like Netflix
there were just hundreds of floaties in
this in this pool so how do you know
people are gonna watch yours
you get like a week at Netflix for for
accessibility and I also thought that it
would have a greater impact
internationally I don't think it did for
me personally and and it was something
to try differently you know it's weird
to is you never really know what the
numbers are no you don't know them they
don't tell you you don't know the
numbers and it also shifts like so like
the the great success that Segura and
Ali Wong had and you know like we're
comedians we watch all of the specials
on Netflix I mean whether we watch the
whole thing is another thing right yeah
that's like with Ted Alexandro and that
we're always like I'm like did you watch
it he goes I ten minutes did you watch
the it's like the best compliment is I
watched the whole thing
I watched Chris Rock's whole special
right you know and so I wanted to do
something different you know I was
offered and it's it's you know it's a
you know it's expanding your audience
and I also understood that a lot of
people consume things on demand look I
have young kids so I'm just I'm still
buying on iTunes like it's 1981 you know
and people consume things on demand I
was convinced on that and so it went we
did this kind of like everywhere but
Netflix and then there was a second
window that was on Amazon Prime and it
got a real a lot of viewers and so that
prompted Amazon to approach for this
special so independently when you
release your last one did it like a
production company come to you and say
hey Jim yes yeah it was comedy dynamics
and they were like Bergen we're gonna
tribute it we're gonna sell it piecemeal
different places and so I was like yeah
you know what I wanted on airplanes
right right and I you know I have
Netflix but not everyone has Netflix
mm-hmm and also you know the swimming
pool metaphor II can get kind of lost in
there
so yours was available on Apple TV was
available on everything it was on
available on everywhere you know and it
was even in theaters do you get a sense
of the numbers from them oh yeah
definitely
so that Netflix is the only one doesn't
give you the numbers that yeah
supposedly Amazon will give the numbers
supposedly I think they would gotta get
in a room with them I think that they um
you know it's it's gonna be so
interesting cuz I have no idea but I
also you know just as how we consume
specials has changed I think that you
know getting I think specials serve
almost the very personal for us right by
the way your last one was great thanks
but it's very personal for us but it
also indirectly serves as like an
infomercial for our sentiment
Sensibility
yeah for so it's like you want other
people to see it so they can go yeah I
like this kind of stuff and so the
appeal of it being in different places
was appealing to me yeah I like the idea
of it too I mean I really do enjoy that
Netflix has gotten so big in the
stand-up specials cuz they've given so
many people opportunities and expose the
world of so many great comics I don't
like the fact they don't give me the
numbers that's all annoying yeah but I
do like the fact there's other options
now I think it's great I think look HBO
now has a streaming option you know
they're trying to get really behind HBO
go and hopefully more people do that so
HBO specials will be what they used to
be you should be if someone got an HBO
special like holy shit it would
transform their life oh my god like
Kennison and all these different people
found out about them because they oh
yeah I think it's it's gonna be
interesting I think that you know seeing
what Disney Plus does and seeing you
know HBO Maxx and Apple but it's I had I
had approached Amazon back I think with
my special obsessed
I wanted to do it on Amazon they had
Prime at that point and I was like I'll
give it you give me this amount of money
and you guys own the special and they're
like at that point they weren't you know
there there were packaged goods company
they're like no we'll give you 6 cents
for every view and I'm like no no no you
don't understand I'm gonna drive people
to amazon.com and they're like nah we're
not interested but so it'll take some
time so yeah you know we might think
that Apple and Disney will step up
immediately for comedy specials but we
don't know we don't know I think in the
future there's not going to be anything
on live television except sports oh
really oh yeah TV like the idea of like
tuning in at 8 o'clock on Tuesday night
that's the only time to see something oh
yeah
ridiculous pointment television is an
absurd that's a great way of putting it
yeah
appointment television yeah it's just
it's insane yeah at least date and
that's one of the other great things
about Netflix like when stranger things
comes out you get the whole damn season
yeah yeah definitely
and so like the binging thing is really
it's absurd like there's there's got to
be some consequences of that yeah we're
just not getting enough sleep
now this like friend of mine she told me
that she was up watching stranger things
till 6 o'clock in the morning she had to
get up at 10:00 to take her kid to
school yeah it's just there's and we
binge it like like there's some reason
behind it
yeah there's it's just convenience just
get obsessed I want to find out what's
next oh yeah they left me hanging yeah
that's next like one more just one and
those suckers that would wait you know
like I we my family I don't wanna sound
too macho but we watched Jane the Virgin
cuz my teenage daughter was really into
it so as a family we watched Jane the
birch I don't even know what that is
it's a TV show it's amazing I mean it's
one of those things where my family
would be watching and I would come in
and I would kind of criticize it and
then after like two episodes I was like
move over
it's totally it's a telenovela it's
about Hispanic culture it's it's great
jewelry a virgin what's it on great
performances it was on the CW
that's a liquor I feel like in my adult
lifetime the CW appeared and I still
have never watched the show on the CW
look have you ever watched the show on
the CW I don't believe so
right it's a real Network yeah but it's
love you be yeah I think the WB was I
think the CW is something like that
right there was a few of those little
fringe networks way back in the day like
I remember the Wayans brothers had a TV
show on one of them yeah
there's it's one of those weird networks
that was I think it was owned by CBS but
they're like it's just kind of like you
know like it would be teen shows
mm-hmm like teen romance shows and you
like the show I gained the virgin I
liked it I liked it you know I'm not
ashamed to say it don't you know like if
I asked myself six months ago would I be
on Joe Rogan's podcast saying that I
like Jane the Virgin I would say no of
course not well I remember when you know
people used to think that being on one
of those networks wouldn't do you any
good one of those little small networks
but then truTV put on Impractical Jokers
and those guys are selling out arenas
amazing that fucking show is so crazy
popular it's you know it's fascinating
watching that show because I you know
you try and understand it because but I
think it's the authenticity yeah those
guys they're pals and it's not
manufactured right and and I think
people like that yes it's very appealing
you're like you know and I think that's
also like real guys yeah I think there
is so much beautiful people that we
consume so oh so much beautiful people
that were shocked when we see a regular
looking person we're like wait a minute
what what did that person that person
must be a bad guy I used to have a joke
about that they seemed like you could
hang out with them too they seemed like
regular guys that would be fun to hang
out with yeah it's like oh I want to be
with them no look when I first heard the
premise I was like oh this is but by the
way it's been going on for a while quite
a while and I was doing shows in London
and we have the same agent
they were doing an arena three nights in
a row in London it's crazy crazy it's
amazing
like who the fuck saw that coming when I
heard about it from Ari Ari Shaffir was
telling me these guys were selling out
theater so I was like really
oh my god that's incredible how big they
were like 5,000 people I was like what
yeah why and that was years ago now it's
they've moved to arenas yeah and and
they just keep going and they have like
a whole multimedia show right let's show
videos and all kinds of crazy shit and
they interact and and they're also like
the they're still the same guys yes so
they were always those guys yeah it
wasn't like some cute boy who's trying
to act like he's one of the guys right
like a record company produced boy band
yeah yeah no that's who they are well
that's probably why it resonates with
people because it is authentic
I think authenticity is really important
I think that's what people like about I
think that's the success of this podcast
is the authenticity that it's not
prepackaged there isn't well I mean
people you should understand it's like
even it's it's a it's a weird thing I I
don't know I don't know if you want to
talk about this or and that's why I
won't talk about it there's a weird
thing to me it's and I do it but like
did you because I did this back when it
was at the Ice House and it's like it's
amazing yeah it's pretty crazy it's
pretty crazy
yeah who the fuck saw that coming I
didn't see it going yeah it's like it's
a perfect example of doing something on
your terms and at working out yeah for
sure and also zero promotion of it I
never promoted it at all I never did any
television shows to promote or took out
any ads or did other people's podcast to
let people know about it I just kept
doing it
please felt like let me just keep doing
it I enjoyed doing it just keep doing it
and then it becomes 100 percent built by
word-of-mouth and so what articles that
are written about it do you read those
or no nothing I don't think it's wise
because also like even generally when
there are articles written about
comedians you're kind of there's all
like all right let's see what this
half-day of research body of work in the
nineties there would be like New York
magazine would be like the end of
stand-up come yes oh they followed that
person they don't even really even do
stand-up so it is there is no point
behind it but I'm just kind of a sucker
for trying to understand where the
zeitgeist is trying to steer things but
in the end I think comedy you know
Seinfeld describes it as like it all
comes down to butts and seats
mmm butts in seats like they can kind of
promote you know like the new best thing
but you know those people show up to
shows they you know they're not told
where to go I think what's also
important to note is that the narratives
no longer being controlled by media like
you you can't an article in Newsweek or
on a website or some YouTube piece it
doesn't define things anymore the the
landscape is too big not no media outlet
has any sort of monopoly on how to
define someone or something the people
decide now it's really a meritocracy in
that way yeah if you if you have
something that's good people find out
about it and they like it and you can
write all your hit pieces that you want
they don't work anymore it doesn't work
you know you'll you'll change a few
people's minds because they'll buy into
it but then if they investigate
themselves well you're a piece of shit
journalist this is a terrible article
about something it's you know if but I
sometimes think like I have two theories
on this one I sometimes think was it
always like this and I didn't see it or
here's my other theory my other theory
is that in the collapse of traditional
media meaning the collapse of newspapers
and and just you know television news
bureaus that there because there's no
money to pay someone to be say like a
movie what my father-in-law is he used
to write movie reviews in the
baki and he would review the movies and
now is his job and that job is really
only present in in very rare situations
otherwise it's just the opportunity of
someone that does it out of a passion
thing meaning someone who has a blog or
it's someone who is doesn't need a
financial incentive so in other words
they're like you've got 50 bucks to
write a review of this thing or so it
ends up not being close to objective
does that make sense yeah no it does and
I think if you're gonna really study
something like if you if you want to
know about a person you know say if it's
a politician or you know an actor or
comic or whoever you're writing about
the idea that you're gonna figure them
out with just a few hours of google
searching it's kind of crazy it's
absolutely clear and and the the rush is
to define someone in either very
flattering or very unflattering ways the
this that's really where most of the
energy goes most of the stories are
either hit pieces or they're fluff
pieces that seem to be propped up by a
publicist yeah there is I feel if though
like I did this movie that came out it
was just a small indie comedy where I
was a guy who had two separate families
and they didn't know about each other so
it's like he's a good guy no but he had
two families and it's a comedy it's set
in the 90s and you know the the reviews
that didn't like the movie that didn't
surprise me you know or the criticisms
but like a lot of the reviews were kind
of there was a tone of like how dare
this white male have to fit like they
couldn't get beyond like it wasn't like
they would insert like a social
commentary onto a platform that was not
for that yeah do you mean like it was
there was there was a portrayal of and
there were great female actor actors
that played my wives and there was some
reviews there like they underserved them
and it's like you know what the movie
was really about my character and his
son you know and but like people were
frustrated about story but because of
the day we live in it had to be kind of
deciphered through this kind of social
critique that is just absurd and it
wasn't here and there it was a lot of
reviews like that well they feel like
there's an obligation to discuss that
now too if they feel like there's some
sort of an imbalance sexually like
between genders and on a television show
or intersectionality and that's if it
has something to do with race or gender
or politics or they feel like this is
something that must be discussed and one
of the things that I hear from friends
that are very frustrated and when they
pitch shows the only pitch shows to the
network if they have a story an idea
like this is what we're trying to this
is the thing they're like okay where's
the diversity yeah it's like one of the
first questions they're like well it's
about an Irish family that lives in the
Bronx like I don't know what to tell you
yeah you know it's this is what the
story is about like well where's the
diversity like you have to insert
diversity to meet their criteria like
you can't just have a you can have a
story as long as the person's like you
could have a story about a Haitian
family and it'd just be all about the
Haitian family no one's gonna say well
what about white guys we need to get
some white guys on the show no because
if you inserted the white guys then it's
the white savior story so you can't be
the white guys yeah I just can't wait
until we're done with all this I mean
maybe it maybe it'll be long after we're
done but and long after we're dead yeah
but when there's no more racism and this
is no longer a viable storyline and they
like no one gives a fuck if you're
Chinese or Indian from Pakistan
well legitimately don't care they're
just different varieties of people and
there's no judgment whatsoever I can't
wait for that time but until then we
just have to deal with these absurd
people that peddle in this this
narrative that you have to have you know
X amount of like I was reading something
where someone was saying that I should
run for
I should moderate the presidential
debates about beer me and someone it's
never gonna make them all smoke pot
before sure it's never gonna happen but
someone said why do that when you can
give it to a talented black woman like
okay I'm out we're out we're not not
talking about the way here's the thing
it's and I think you'd agree with me I
do think there's an imbalance and we do
have to correct it yes and I do think
that like you know and it's great that
we have the the knowledge and the
foresight but humans were just clumsy no
we're just clumsy you know with you know
we're just like let's just stick this
here when when you know creativity is
much more complex than that
like even even any comedian we could
have carrot top here there's a nuance on
every joke he does like people can sit
there and be dismissive but like he's
like you know what I can't do that joke
before I do this joke yeah whereas
people just think it's like no just
stick this in there stick a speech in
there but I almost feel is like when
green book one cuz I saw it after the
fact I was like kids you know like
there's this this belief of oh you know
you if you play a disabled person you
win and but it's much more of like that
movie winning was like oh yeah you know
it's it's you know the great crime of
America and race so it brings that up it
also deals with you know homosexuality
and like the struggle of that which is
profound I can't even contemplate it but
it's like that's why the movie won hmm
and it was also we love Italians with
America loves that who doesn't love that
America loves Italian Silla Boston and
you know that's you know that's there's
certain things that America loves so I
was like oh that's why it won I'm not
saying it's a bad movie I'm not saying
video wasn't great I'm just saying
that's why one yeah and it's weird it is
a little weird but it on the other hand
one way to look at it is that like
desert the idea that there can be no
darkness without light right there could
be no there can be no real
appreciation of true diversity without
an understanding of racism like in to
have it around in its ugliest form makes
you appreciate the people that don't
express that that aren't racist that are
just even-keeled people that appreciate
everybody well you know there's there's
also this too is that you know I'm I
tend to lean left
I'm pretty uh liberal socially and but I
and you know when Trump was elected and
like there was women's March and all
this stuff
there was this I had this thought
process of like how do i how do i you
know how can i contribute how can i help
make this country better which just
sounds grandiose which it is but the
thing is it's like I'm not changing
anyone's mind hmm I really believe that
it's like and if anything I think that
my shows it's like people are kind of
like a break from it yes do you I mean
like it's we're all thinking about it
all the time feel like all right there's
a tariff a Chinese tariff what does that
mean I don't know what that means is
that our American farmers destroyed
what's going on but like when they come
to my show they don't want me to rehash
it yes yeah no I think that's one of the
keys to your success is that you provide
a vacation
fun silly well-thought-out comedic ly
brilliant sort of vacation from but also
pointing out that humans are we're
absurd we're stupid yes yeah we are so
stupid like we just think humans think
we have it every generation we think we
have it figured out yeah that's like the
the sure admit
of people makes me concerned but you
know there were people at a time that
we're like here's how we serve the how
we solve the flu is we're gonna put
these leeches on people trust me it's
working like they they were convinced
that would work yeah yeah makes you
wonder like what how we're gonna view
this generation a hundred years now or
two hundred years from now
oh it's going
I mean I've got a I've got a 15 year old
who is so my children are they're so
fascinating and you live in New York
City I live in New York City yeah which
is crazy always we talked about this a
long time ago that's a wild place to
raise kids it is it I don't know I don't
I feel like there is there is
socio-economic cultural more diversity
my kids walking to a subway station sure
then if we lived in the suburbs for sure
and yeah you know it's you know they
don't have a yard but like I'm kind of
like I don't know it seems like people
that have yards they're like paranoid
about their kids getting snatched anyway
so but I don't know it's what I also you
know I feel like there's a lot of
convenience in New York that I like and
I also to be perfectly honest it's like
in LA I feel like I feel kind of
smothered by the entertainment industry
hmm and and maybe it's my insecurities
but it's like no I think you're right
there's like you drive down the street
there's all these billboards then each
of those billboards is saying you're a
failure look at this person this person
this is their fifth show where they're
gonna get an Emmy nomination and people
don't even know your name
yeah you know so it's I mean obviously
just fate
had it where I stayed in New York
because there's plenty of reasons to
live in LA well first and foremost
you're a comic you're recognized as a
comic but you do a lot of other things
as well but like being you do a lot of
other movies and television shows and
stuff but being in New York City I think
you in some ways you get the best of
both worlds because you have many clubs
to perform in there are many clubs to
practice in but you also don't get that
sort of scrutiny of the the agents and
the managers and the entertainment
industry so you can work on your shit
and then on top of that you're not
surrounded by the business yeah you're
around fucking regular folks just
hustling and do your thing I'm traveling
constantly too so it's but there is
yeah I just like do it I mean here's
where I think I'm doing the doing it
wrong or doing it right it's like I just
care about good stage time quality stage
time whereas I think you know even you
know like I don't work at the cellar in
New York City and that's and you know
some of that goes back history but like
some of it is I just want stage time and
I can eat dinner with my kids put some
of them to bed and decide to do a spot
go do the spot come back and wrangle my
two other kids to get to sleep whereas
if I went to the cellar
or if I had to make the journey the
drive in LA it would be a different
commitment what's the other thing about
the cellar that makes it more difficult
well you know some of it is is peers and
friends like I don't like the idea you
know the hierarchy of I always kind of
get you know a little bit look I'm just
kind of like I just want to do stand-up
I just want to do it mm-hmm I spent a
lot of time hanging out in comedy clubs
and some of it is like in at the cellar
I don't want to bump some of my friends
that I started with right and I also
don't want to get bumped by somebody
else hmm it's like I you know I you know
I'm not gonna abuse doing a set but I'll
go in and I'll do 15 minutes it won't
disrupt anyone's night but I also know
that at the cellar you you know there's
gonna be people that show up sometimes
there's a pack of three or four people
that are gonna do sets and everyone's
kind of off for that night but also it's
you know it goes back like 20 years ago
I'm a low energy kind of comedian and it
used to you know I used to put in a
veils at the cellar and it would kind of
determine I would get you know like you
get a spot Wednesday at 1:00 a.m. and so
like I would be bummed for the week so I
don't want to I don't want to give my
power away you know citrus I just want
to do stand-up so you'd rather just do
yeah and and also great and and I look I
love the cellar but I feel like that's
also
the the layout of the room is far more
interactive whereas I want to try out
material but I don't know it's shift
it's shifted because the seller is it's
a great club with a great complex I mean
there's three rooms so but some of it is
I'm now at the point where I just want
to do one set and I also don't want to
like I don't want a friend like Todd
Barry looking at me like you're bumping
me do you call in or did you show up I
call it yeah so I'll call but sometimes
I'll decide it like 8 10 I'll call
Gotham and I'll go is it okay if I come
in and they'll say yes it's better if
you come in at 8:40 or 9 10 just so that
I don't screw anyone else yeah and then
you know but like a Gotham Seinfeld
always goes there too so it's like I'm
like I got to get there before Jerry
well that's the beautiful thing about a
big city like New York particularly
about New York there's so many different
options yeah in Los Angeles we really
only have the Comedy Store The Improv
the Laugh Factory and then there's a few
of the outskirts but New York City has
so many more options
it's amazing the transformation the
Comedy Store has gone through yeah look
it is that I would say it's probably one
of the most important clubs in the
country beyond a doubt maybe I'm
thinking it's like up there right as
like the Surefire thing if you're an
audience member you go to the store
you're gonna see a great show but like
15 years ago I don't know if that was
the case no no I wasn't the case in 2008
yeah yeah it was it was who is
responsible cuz that that comes down to
management dad has a lot to do with it
it also the internet a lot of us talking
about how great the Comedy Store and
also getting rid of the old management
firing them right they found the old guy
was running the place was stealing money
and they fired him if there's how many's
a piece of shit anyway there's so many
stories where it's like and then it was
revealed they were stealing you're like
yeah no they they did a sting operation
caught him stealing money oh yeah it was
bad guy but just running the place
poorly too
and he was the reason why I was in there
for seven years yeah yeah so I came back
and you know all the talking about the
store with comics on podcast to get all
so excited about it and then you'd look
at the lineup like on a Tuesday night
it's just a murderer's row and also
those rooms are great with the layout of
the rooms are like great for performing
yeah they're not kind of like this you
know like I loves a nice and Chicago but
it's like it's not like the stage is
three feet higher than the audience it's
it's almost perfectly designed and laid
out yes yeah yeah you don't want to be
above like the the store like the
original room is probably the best room
in the world to figure out if your jokes
are any good yeah because if if you have
any weird fat in your material or just
extra words or fakeness or it just gets
exposed in that room yeah I love I love
going to different places and I call it
purifying a joke are you doing spots a
night anywhere now I'm probably not I'm
up at 9:30 all right I'll go for you
know yeah I mean it's just I've been
doing this all this promotion for this
Amazon Prime thing there's so many shows
mm-hmm like their shows that I'm like
and I've heard of them but I'm like how
many like it's it's getting to the point
where people like we're doing individual
shows for just one person like I feel
like I'm like I'll do these shows and
I'll be like all right you know and I
don't want a name but but you're like I
think like a look at my publicist I'm
like is there people that listen this
and he's like yeah a million people I'm
like really there's so many people Jim
that's what it is
it's just it used to be the there but
like it's strange to do a show have a
great time you know really kind of
engaged in conversation and it drops and
no one says anything on Twitter or an
Instagram or Facebook
well there's if you really stop and
think about how many television
shows who are in terms of likes shows
you can binge-watch it's impossible you
would literally lose your entire day
every day of the week
just trying to keep up with the hits
there's no way it's impossible and then
you have how many people have talked
shows how many when is James Corden and
is it's a night show oh and there's
Colbert when did you decide to not cuz
you used to do those shows yeah was
there was it's a time management thing
it's a time management thing and it's
also I don't believe that they have a
good format I think that format is
nonsense
I think the format of waiting for
commercials and the audience being right
there and playing to the audience it's
not it's not an effective way to have a
conversation it's definitely not an
effective way to express ideas that are
complicated you want to be able to like
air them out in a long-form link and you
can't do that on those shows you just
can't
it's it's young it's out and the vainly
weird or controversial comes up you
stick your foot in your mouth you never
have a chance to take it out nobody
really gets a chance to see how your
mind really works like what what are you
thinking what would where is your head
at how do you come to these conclusions
what's your thought process who are you
as a person a good person are you trying
to do good yeah you flawed or you what
are you and you find that out in the
long-form conversations like when I had
Bernie Sanders on one of the things that
people said was most interesting it's
like this guy's not a cartoon he's a
really nice guy I see him on these shows
and he seems like this fucking
cartoonish character right but now you
see him here in this long-form
conversation where there's no
interruptions at all he just has a
chance to think and talk and express
himself and you go oh now I know the
real Bernie because I never knew him
when these goddamn debates means
screaming for 12 seconds about health
care about taxes or about whatever it is
it's fascinating
like all right here let me let me ask
you this okay because let me try to
utilize I go original flavor and you
used to used to do the chew right I used
to dip and then I used to smoke
cigarettes like there's my wife has
videos like you know we have all these
old videos of us doing stand-up and shoe
transferring them to like DVDs at the
time now we're gonna have to get him off
the DVD and she would find these videos
of me doing stand-up smoking on stage
whoa
back in the day some and she was like
what are you doing and I'm like yeah I
used to smoke I used to you know I had
yellow fingers cigarettes before I gone
stage even recently I smoked one appel
cigarettes last weekend it gives you a
crazy head rush before you go on stage I
like it
it's me I want to smoke cigarettes sorry
for the smacking and the yeah microphone
folks it's a terrible thing to smoke
cigarettes but there's a weird rush that
you get from from the nicotine I was
like it's a head rush it's like you feel
good yeah
you feel it the first couple times and
then you're chasing it for the rest of
your life well money into a garbage can
once a week you smoke a cigarette once
we put you on today that's a real that's
hey kids out there just listen just
listen Uncle Joe just smoke one
cigarette a week and it'll be fun
well I'm thinking maybe your nicotine
gum might be the substitute for that
because what I'm getting is the nicotine
right I mean that's what those great
gradually starts smoking cigars before I
go on stage uh yeah I the the nicotine
gum
it used to curb my hunger they used to
curb nothing does matter nothing at all
curbs it it's like but we're talking
about this outside I'm like there are
times when I've been more in shape than
others but I feel like at this point I'm
like you know maybe I'll just go it all
in and fat guy I might just be like you
know what I'm just I'm just gonna go all
in you know like you know I'll just you
know I'll take the place of Pinet you
know I'll just do that okay you if you
seem thinner though than I've seen you
before I'm not I'm not I'm not at all
but it's just I have low tea I don't
know what that even means like I see
those commercials testosterone yes do
you take testosterone I take this - you
seem like you drink it every morning
have you ever liked but like I feel like
I just need like energy yeah that'll
give you energy
your body's dying and it is dying your
endocrine system no longer produces the
hormone you lost me at an errand I mean
that this this is when you see an older
person when they have the diminished
muscle and their mass is like shrinking
that's what's going on their body
doesn't produce the hormones in order to
keep the mass going so what you have to
do is two things one you have to lift
weights that's one thing and two you
have to sell too hard to know but yet
some of it is I'm so focused on eating I
I sometimes listen to my set while I
work out it's like when you work out you
have to focus on working out yeah but
that's a good thing to do I do that when
I'm on the elliptical sometimes
yeah listen to listen to comedy I think
listening to sets is one thing that not
enough comics do they record their sets
but they don't listen to them because
it's gross and you feel it's annoying
you don't hear it yeah it's wait the way
you learn and I feel like I mean I don't
know I would like to know how you feel
about this yeah I feel like the amount
of time these been concentrating on your
material has a direct result and how
good it is and how good it gets quick
especially when you're producing
specials so you abandon all your
material you don't have to write new
stuff for me the process is greatly
accelerated by physically writing
physically writing is very important I
devote a lot of time to sit in front of
a computer staring at it smoking pot
writing things out looking at notes
writing things out yeah performing those
are critical but also listening
listening to those recordings and then
writing notes on the recordings yeah for
me the process is it shifts all the time
right so there's sometimes you just give
birth to a chunk you're a brewer it just
comes out and you're like oh my gosh
thank God and sometimes it's just like
you're chiseling away at granite and
it's just bit by bit underneath but for
me it's doing these longer sets like
doing an hour in 10 minutes I will and
it's a shift from before it used to be
like I needed the Sitz assets in the
city to like build piece by piece but
now I'm kind of I'll talk about like
something that happened when I was a kid
and then I'll polish it over a long
period because in an hour show it's you
know I believe you have
to do a material every time you do a
theater and it has to be new because you
want people leaving going on coming back
when it comes back yeah and so but the
writing process it's it's always moving
for me sometimes it is it's a lot of
times like something will bump me and
I'll write it down on my phone and then
sometimes I'll write around it or I will
just go on stage and talk a little bit
about it are you when you are doing sets
in the city are you ever doing long sets
like an hour not usually because it's I
mean my when I'm in New York you know
having five kids it's just just the
commitment
for like I'm looking at September and
I'm like oh my gosh like the the
curriculum nights alone are gonna be
insane and there's gonna be you know you
know my daughter's and soccer and
there's gonna be all these meetings and
there's just innumerable things so like
Emily's school assemblies you know like
chatting with the principal who talks
about it their philosophy and so like
there's there's a commitment but like
doing the hour I don't really usually do
it in New York but what I do do is I
will I like to do I don't know what
they're called now but all shows in
Brooklyn which is it'll kind of like
I'll do material that would work in a
comedy club but like in in Brooklyn in
front of like a more I don't know how to
describe ministers hipsters or more
precious audience precious dear I mean
we're you know like when I go on stage
in New York City in Manhattan I'm a
white guy who's like fat when I go on
stage in some of these rooms in Brooklyn
I'm a white man you're mean so it's a
different experience and it's very
important to see that because how I
characterize things you know it's it's
good to like be educated on like oh you
know all right maybe that does sound a
little piggy so I'll pull back right
right and then I'll go
on the road like a you say like a great
example is I used to have back when USA
I'm sure USA Today is still there but I
said all this material that I developed
in in Brooklyn about the USA Today how
like it's just like a coloring book here
I mean and how it's just kind of like do
you like news but also pictures of news
and it was just great and it would kill
and Brooklyn it would kill in New York
and then I would go on the road and
people be like what the hell are you
talking about I like the USA Today
that's what I get when I travel yeah I
mean or it's got a great sports section
so it's like there's so much value in
traveling around with material because
you gain different perspectives oh sure
the road is so critical for that yeah
get a sense of how people especially
you're doing clubs I find that the road
when you're doing clubs you really get a
sense of like the feel of a city whether
it's Cleveland or close yes yeah I mean
I love the fact even you know how you
know doing talking about you know I make
a point of not doing too much material
on having five kids but like I'll do
like if I talk about having five kids in
New York City in at a show in New York
City people are like you're crazy and
then if I talk about having five kids in
Boston and I'm generalizing people in
Boston might be like you're crazy I came
from one of those families and if I do
it in Utah it would be like yeah we are
crazy for having five kids so it is the
same joke and it's the same point of
view but it's tweaked a little bit and
it's so fun kind of traveling around and
learning that material and learning the
impact and how it's digested
well comics have a unique perspective on
America because of that because we don't
just go to these different places but we
also perform material in all these
different places so I think like we've
been talking a lot with comics lately
about like what was your reaction to
Trump winning the election comics saw it
coming more than most people who live in
LA because most people live in LA very
liberal very left-wing convinced that
you know this is even it didn't didn't
matter who you voted for Hillary was
gonna win California no matter what yeah
like we were the
is a pro yeah Democrat state and when
Trump won
I've ran into people that were
shell-shocked they couldn't fucking
imagine I mean I think I mean I was
surprised I was definitely surprised but
that being said I wasn't surprised by
the the logic behind some of the people
that voted for Trump last time that are
sheepish to admit it now yes I
understood some of that logic but I
thought it was fascinating because there
was a time for me because I tour with
Ted Alexandro a lot and he's like not
dead he's like he's like an Occupy Wall
Street guy like he is like very
progressive and we would tour and he
would have during the election he would
have some material on Hillary and some
material on Trump and it worked
everywhere worked when taxes worked in
Tennessee which i think is the most
conservative place outside of Nashville
and and so it will work everywhere and
then the election happened and that same
material and it wasn't just the context
of the at post election it was I
describe it as people looking at the
ceiling is that people didn't want to
hear it and I think some of it is people
like we deal with this all day we need a
break from it but it was both sides yeah
so like Trump voters were more
emboldened kind of like that's right and
then also the left people were like
please can i I just want to hear Jim
talk about horses for 10 minutes do I
mean and so there is something
fascinating that occurs and there's also
something fascinating about
international shows because when Bush
was when w was president there were much
more people coming up to me going how
dare he is you know start the Iraq war
and with with Trump they're like yeah
you probably didn't have anything to do
with that yes I would say that's my
takeaway
yeah it's people are definitely fatigued
I think we have a political discourse
fatigue
it's never-ending never-ending and it's
how much of you is your life if you
really stop and think about if you're
alive for 75 85 years on this planet and
most of your waking time interacting
with people is discussing politics how
much of it actually does affect your
life other than those conversations
those conversations it's a giant part of
a lot of people's anxiety a giant part
of the arc but the real life like
getting up in the morning fixing
breakfast for your kids yeah I can uh no
how much fucking Trump play a part in
any of that yeah I did I did a CBS
Sunday commentary on how all
conversations lead to Trump like it's
just every conversation eventually gets
to and then Trump did something like
that but it is I was also thinking like
because we we live in this very
precarious time and you know a very
divided country on a lot of different
levels and there's so much drama and
there's you know you know environmental
disaster impending and I and again to my
point of like is we finally figured it
out this is the most dramatic period but
compared to world war two no this is
nothing nothing this is nothing I was in
Central Europe
what like human beings like we you know
you know and we're going around this
Terrace in this place outside of Prague
where they stuck all the Jewish people
and with my children and my children who
like just want to play on iPads were
just mesmerised they're like what and
and the takeaway was not oh the Germans
are bad and Nazis are bad the takeaway
is Oh humans are crazy like it's just a
matter of months that these same people
that were your neighbors that you would
go to their kids birthday parties you
were waving goodbye to because you got
their apartment and I'm like oh like it
was terrifying like human beings it's
very easy for us to go yeah it was the
Germans it was the Germans that did that
you know as Lithuanians did but it
wasn't
with human beings that were like
manipulated like that yeah if we catch
the wrong leader yeah yeah but work
right next to you that's that is a world
war two helmet that's a legitimate world
war two helmet and a bayonet Wow that uh
it's a good reminder it's filled with
little holes and shit there's apparently
places in Europe where you can find
thousands of those things just scattered
out there you know there's areas in
France that are impossible for people to
go to because there's so many rounds
that have been shot into the the ground
there and so much toxic chemicals and
stuff from world war ii that to this day
they they don't want people traveling to
i mean it's an enormous size the size of
paris it's in real yeah see if you can
find that that's amazing like there's
also today from the 40s so like when I
was in Prague and you know you go on
these tours and the punishment like they
would just be like and this I are also
learned this in Greece they'd be like
the ability okay so as punishment we are
going to murder an entire village so
we're gonna in your look what and by the
way again we can characterize this this
because on the internet everyone's gonna
bet Gaffigan was defending Nazis that's
not my point at all is just that human
beings like it wasn't that long ago when
like rape and pillage was the go-to
tactic it's like I will conquer then
will rape and pillage you know there
were some guys really you know what can
I just pillage I just you know I got a
girlfriend now and I don't really feel
like raping but we were talking about
Kyrgyzstan the other day that to this
day 20% of all marriages begin in
kidnapping what yes 20 percent so one
out of five marriages started with the
groom kidnapping the bride like that's
how they had to get married because he
raped her so in order for her so it's
romantic or it's that's unbelievable
it's fucking crazy here it is the
redzone in France is so dangerous that a
hundred years after World War two it's
still a no-go area there's all sorts of
rounds and munitions and and there's all
sorts of I mean there's so many rockets
we're fired into this area that this
shit is still in in the soil and
everyone why you know this also brings
up a separate point why why is this
suprise like what humans also have a
really a real short-term memory problem
like we don't remember things right like
I don't think people really appreciate
you know that World War two was like 70
years ago right like it was not that
long ago right like even the you know
like Serbia I was in Dubrovnik and
they're like yeah up there the
Montenegrins used to shoot at us those
guys you know now we go to their bar and
you're like what look that was the 90s
yeah it's just it's just terrifying it's
it's hard to believe but if you're in
the wrong place in history at the wrong
time like right now if you're in Libya
Libya right now or Syria yeah well Libya
is a failed state I mean serious Haribo
Assad running it but Libya is no one
running it Libya they're selling slaves
on YouTube I mean you can watch slave
auctions in real time right now it's a
terrifying terrifying place and it's
because they killed Muammar Qaddafi and
then the rebels took over and then it
became a felt a failed state it's chaos
and this is right now in 2019 if you
were unfortunate enough to be born in
Libya you are stuck there right now and
you're living in hell you're not living
in Manhattan in 2019 where it's
wonderful Jim Gaffigan can hop on over
to goth yeah so how did Jerry Seinfeld
do a sit down have a meatball sub and
you know do that what the fuck you want
no you're living in a chaos filled
environment where barbarians are running
the show this can happen this can happen
and this is one of the reasons why our
democracy is so important one of the
reasons why compassion is so important
and kindness and talking to people it's
also important to look at things
objectively and label things based on
compassion and looking at things in in
an intelligent non biased way so you
could really get a sense of what the
landscape really is if you're you know
if you're everybody's a fucking Nazi and
everybody's terrible to just white
privilege that everyone's a criminal
everyone's bad no no
real crime in the world there's real
terror and real awful things we have
more unity we have more in common than
then we promote you know what I think is
and I think this is also a reflection of
the success of comedians podcasts is
that what people don't realize is that
comedians really appreciate a different
point of view we actually like we have
friends that like we don't agree with
in fact we almost find it entertaining
like let's talk to this friend because I
know I disagree with him and we can have
that banter and I think that
particularly in this cancel culture
there is and so like you get these
comedians like you hosting these
podcasts having these discussions and
and comedians have kind of like the
boldness to step in it and say hey I
don't know about that tell me about that
where is like from a societal basis
there's like don't question don't
question why we're pursuing this because
if you question it that means you're not
a true believer and we're looking for
true believers where is and by the way
it's it's just interesting because I
think you know I have a friend Tom
shaloo who I love who's who has a show
on on Fox Nation and it is weird cuz
like six years ago and I did this
interview and I talked about it and and
I could see the interviewer go you're
friends with someone that works at Fox
and I'm like yeah you know it's like
it's okay yeah it's okay he's not a
monster
yeah he's not killing you know he's not
putting children in cages he's friends
with Steve Hilton he has a show on Fox
he interviewed Trump about my family and
his family going vacations together
he's got it's like why like it's it's
it's this strange thing where I'm like I
can understand how important these
beliefs are and I can understand how
threatening democracy is and
I can understand how we have to face our
history and and all these things but
it's like the discourse has to remain
doesn't it yes we have to be able to
talk to each other and I think that's
one of the things that kind of died with
the Trump election people were like
you're with us or against us
you're the for him or your for the
future and compassion and and caring
about everyone or you're a monster and
there's no there's no discussion about
finances or the best way to run the
economy or international trade no no no
you're you're with the good or the bad
your binary it's one or zero you're
black or white you're one or zero and it
that is the same thing that they
criticized about w mm-hmm saying you're
either with us or again which by the way
being a father of daughters you know is
also aligned from Beauty and the Beast
yeah appropriately so right it's like
very childlike like that that
perspectives very childlike there's a
lot of people that are conservative
there are very good people absolutely
that's I you know here's another thing
that I find very frustrating I feel as
though I'm sometimes and sometimes I'll
get messages on social media and they'll
be like you know that some of the people
that like your comedy are Trump
supporters and I'm like I hope so I I
hope that I appeal to a lot of different
people you know I it's it's a very
strange like I remember the success I
had and I'm so grateful for the success
that I've had on beyond the pale I
remember like I came back to New York
after I had done this tour and you don't
know what stand-up you don't know how
long it's gonna last
you don't know what's going on and I
came back and I remember someone reading
an article maybe it was in timeout in
New York and they're like he's very
mainstream mainstream and and there was
recently a New York Times article he is
very conventional and I'm like what is
that do you mean like conventional in
that people want to go and see me
perform like a lot of people like things
like that's a crime
yeah like that's he's you know you know
it's like it's so we live in this age
like there used to be comedians and I
think it's inhibited some people's
success
we're like if it's like Bill burr
one of the best comedians today and I
think people are sometimes people in the
media are like you know the wrong people
might like his material you're like that
does it
derp I'm saying yes paranoid but I'm
like no I get that from this podcast
it's it's a very strange it's it's it's
almost kind of 8i you know and I and I
don't know if I've talked about this but
like you know like there's this cultural
revolution that is occurring that is
it's well intended but it's almost it's
almost puritanical and it and by the way
I'm not somebody I'm against any form of
censorship but I'm also somebody that
believes that if we can articulate
transgender terms that make people that
are transgender feel comfortable there's
there's nothing wrong with that we can
adjust our language we do it all the
time but I do think that there is kind
of this almost puritanical thing that's
ironically happening on the left that is
what we you know as comedians we used to
make fun of the right for does that make
sense yes it's a very strange kind of
like wait you guys are doing what you
accuse these guys of doing forever they
don't see it that way because they feel
like they're right and if you're right
then it doesn't matter well-intended
yeah I do think it's well into I don't
question someone's motives like I don't
think that like I remember and I'm gonna
get blowback on this look I don't think
that w-what had malicious intent I think
he was well intended you know he failed
at things but I think he was well
intended I think that's probably a
logical perspective and I think Dick
Cheney's probably Satan you think so
I think Dick Cheney was running me
straight from hell that's why I had that
bunker deep deep down under but I think
that bunker existed he was right wasn't
like he was like it's not like he was
like I need
he had a straight shot straight to hell
that's what it was it was it was down
there that's how it was he did that's
why it was so warm
that's what he remember when he was in
the bunker after 9/11 there was a change
in a bunker how come George Bush is
playing golf duh be is out there because
he see warhead he was in DC and there
was a separation of of powers I don't
know and then we all saw they Adam McKay
movie you look how much is that true
imagine the power - because Dick Cheney
look I I you know I also doubt
everything I always quote you know like
everything I hear about I'm kind of like
cut it in half which makes me kind of
still think trumpet yes absolutely crazy
but but like you know Dick Cheney is
there like is he is and I don't think he
cares but like there's no like the the
narrative has been set for him yeah
there's no kind of like you're not gonna
believe this but Dick Cheney is like one
of the funniest storytellers like you
that's there's no snow changing the
narrative of Dick Cheney right like
George Wu's painting and he does a lot
of painting it's good his painting is
kind of lovely it's like it's cute sweet
staff it's like it shows you where his
mind is that this is where he chooses to
spend it Katrina he didn't go there
right away well he hates people
according to Kanye West
right but Dick Cheney is a completely
different animal like he shot his friend
in the face and his friend apologized
yeah but he didn't know what he
obviously didn't do it on purpose
probably drunk and then he disappeared
for 24 hours do you know that they
didn't immediately turn himself in
anyway yeah yeah he was most likely
drinking they were doing what's called a
canned hunt where they open up these
gates and they let these birds fly out
and they just start blasting them and he
shot his friend but it was it could have
been a mistake it was a mistake but I'm
known as the Dick Cheney apologize nice
so explain this Halliburton so he was a
CEO of Halliburton yeah Steve's
Halliburton and he he becomes a vice
president and then he gives Halliburton
the
no bid contracts to rebuild Iraq after
they blew it up so explain that as a as
a pathologist um you know I would say
one no bid contracts happen often that's
what I've heard
how can you chew another one of those my
heart is pounding on my chest because
I'm a real man I'm more manly than you
you know like hey I'm a real like I get
up I do what are those bells that you
kind of cycle bells kettle bells I you
know what I eat a bowl of us for cereal
nice when you're a man like me that's
what I do I put CBD oil on my knees and
then I just lift I lift
bulldozers that's what I do for
breakfast then I jog up mountains and
just yell and then I just come home and
I just eat elk meat but you know unlike
you I don't cook it I just eat the elk
when it's a walk sometimes it's better
to cook though you
what does elk meat taste like want some
not really if I had a kitchen I cook
some would you eat some I'm we're at
this compound you you have this huge
place you got a horse track in the back
you don't have a kitchen here I'm going
to open up a kitchen here seriously yeah
I'm actually I'm thinking about putting
together a restaurant so the ends
compelling thing what makes maybe you've
talked about this and I haven't heard
the episode but elk meat is that good
or it's just yeah some wild animals what
does it taste like deer a deer will
Venice in your life oh this is good
you know if I have really strong mustard
and I'm not hungry oh man it's just
prepared poorly yes is delicious it's
it's all of it is how the meat is taken
care of after the animal dies whether
it's cooled quickly and how its
processed that's all it is
how how it's cleaned how it's cut up how
it's vacuum sealed and frozen almost
immediately after the animal dies how
you don't let in the glands like they
have tarsal glands that they can get
they have hormones like a lot of times
when you're shooting these animals it's
during the rut so they're they're
breeding and this is this is when they
they get this hormones and these tarsal
glands they put these any why don't we
more elk why don't we eat more el
because there's a wild animal it's an
illegal animal to sell you have to go
out and hunt them yeah but why doesn't
someone just start a now
because it sits down on those well
there's a lot of there's a lot of
factors there first of all you can buy
the meat lobby yeah no no you can buy it
from New Zealand
Nealon sells a lot of it and I think
there's some places where you can buy
commercially raised elk in North America
I'm not exactly sure if that's the case
but it's illegal to sell wild game and
there's a difference between an animal
that's been penned in and force-fed and
just you know big bales of hay and
whatever or a wild a newspaper yeah I'm
interested in wild animals because I
think wild animals are healthier also I
think the the Karma of what you're doing
is very different you're just going
after a wild animal that's in the rut
and they wind up killing each other they
get killed by mountain lions and wolves
and bears and what I'm doing is I'm
dipping my toe into the natural world
it's a circle of life I'm going after
them the way a mountain lion would go
after I'm just using a bow and arrow and
I'm getting them them brain in the back
and then I eat that one animal a hope
for a whole year I'll feed my family you
know Tom papa yeah Tom papa is a nation
bread let's say with bread out of yeah
it's like you wouldn't pop it like at
your restaurant
you have that pop it do the brush yeah
he'll be the bread man yeah Benson could
sell the weed and then anybody gets all
the weed today right I guess anyone
could today yeah but but like you love
elk you wake up and you're like you know
what I went out and had a big breakfast
well who doesn't have help for breakfast
if you have the elk series I had sausage
Yoel sausage breakfast and do you make
your own elk sausage no I get that made
I get it made by a butcher that I know
and so do you think that when I come
back because I do this podcast every six
years
do you think when I come back do you
want oh thank you you just didn't have
the right phone numbers do you think
that we will that what is the what is
the do you think that elk is the new
kale that you are gonna that we're gonna
track it back it's too hard to do to go
out and get it yourself it's very
difficult you have to be like really
committed to learning how to hunt and
then to be fit enough to climb the
mountain
and then wouldn't you drag it back you
have to carry it out in chunks yeah chop
it up and then you carry it out John
he's quarter it meaning you take the
legs off and you take the back strap you
know that there's a grocery store it's
right is not to serve elk and a
different experience why why wouldn't
someone listening to this start an elk
ranch and so they legal it's not Lee no
it's not legal to sell wild game and
then there's a reason for that it's and
also when you have these farms there are
farms that raise deer and some other
animals there's a real problem with
chronic wasting disease and certain
diseases that get easily spread when all
these animals are eating off of the same
food source so if they have like our bin
where they're all eating out of and they
share saliva actually contributes to the
contamination of certain diseases and
there's a real problem in this country
with something called CWD just chronic
wasting disease and Wow it's the same
exact thing of mad cow disease it just
hasn't jumped over to other animals it
jumped over to mice but it hasn't jumped
over to humans but if it did jump over
to humans it would be a gigantic fucking
problem and part of that problem they
believe stems from farms from farms that
are raising deer it's very controversial
real in these people and so where do you
where do you go to hunt elk cuz were
different from where I hunt elk I go to
Utah a year go to Colorado is a great
place to hunt Montana is a great place
that's a great elk hunting area just got
to go into the you job what you should
come with me before you came out I would
unlike you I wouldn't quarter it I just
drag it back because I'm strong enough
and I'd put some kettle bells on stick
your dick in them just carry it out like
a condom you just sit so they're big
animals you know like if they if you
missed will they charge you elk most of
the time won't do that but a moose
certainly would moose or get moose or
nest if I go up that's a help right
there there you go yeah I shot that one
in central California and so how do you
get that on an airplane well you have to
quarter it up chop it up into portions
freeze it and then stick it in like a
Yeti cooler and then I'll seal the Yeti
cooler and you have to bring it through
customs and then they have to
they have to look at it not customs but
uh TSA they have to open it up and check
it inspect it and make sure it's very
human yes not a human yeah and then they
they wouldn't even really wouldn't know
if it wasn't human
you could say it's wild pitch idea hallo
and so what is that thing there that is
for my friend Adam green tree that is an
Asiatic water buffalo that he shot in
Australia yeah he's a buddy man he gave
it to me so decided to please and so how
many how many elk have you shot like you
you really gonna get you a year to eat
it yeah yeah about now I can eat one in
about six months my family eats a lot of
it I give a lot of it to my friends and
do do people it's like these are your
daughters like elk again sometimes yes
the anza get annoyed we a lot of meat
and and a lot of Elks do and it's
healthier than beef oh yeah but why is
it healthier it's got more protein per
ounce it's got more amino acids it's a
darker richer color like if you look at
grass-fed beef grain fed beef the other
thing you notice is the grass-fed beef
is a darker color the meats in the right
car this is a healthier animal that's
what that's what beef is supposed to
look like
what don't you eat I eat a lot you eat
fast food occasionally yeah okay so I'm
not I'm not rich like a leading in out
burger Allah oh yeah I'm not that rigid
like one in out burger are you imagining
that it's an elk burger no no I'm just
to join it do you consider yourself an
elk meat elk meat advocate yes you are a
human elk become you want to convert
people
no no why not buy a ranch no no no I
don't want people to buy it like that I
don't I'm not even saying that you
should go out and hunt I'm not saying
that people should do it what I'm saying
is if you did do it you'd have a
completely different relationship with
your food when I'm be eating something
there's like a real good feeling that I
know that I harvested that thing I was
out in the woods I chased it for days I
was trying to like get the wind right so
that might the wind is on at my back
blowing towards the animal I got to
sneak up on it slowly I have to figure
my way to where I can get a clean shot
on this animal then once I kill it then
we have to drag it out of there
we have to cut it up and do aim for the
head or do you aim for the heart came
from the heart but if you have a
high-powered rifle there's a lot of
people that are chefs that shoot them in
the head
there's though they think that it's
quicker like you did that if they die
quicker they taste better but mmm they
taste delicious I don't I don't really
think there's any need for that there's
an idea that if the animal has too much
adrenaline in it like if it's spooked
there it will taint the flavor of the
meat but what is the universal I
hijacked your but what is the unit what
is the unifying thing that comedians UFC
fighters and hunters all have in common
it's difficult we're doing difficult
things yeah this is a difficult pursuit
Samet point yeah comedy is an extremely
difficult pursuit the idea of taking an
idea crafting it and then distributing
it performing it in front of people who
paid money to hear you talk when they
can talk to ya pay much you're not not
do there's an audacity clip so you don't
have a fucking multimedia show there's
no pyrotechnics but you're just talking
and people will pay money get a
babysitter dry and you got to make sure
it's right man cuz they'll get fucking
angry at you yeah is there's a direct
correlation between how happy people are
when you make them laugh versus how
angry they are if you don't make them by
the way I believe that you know people
talk and my tickets are not high or
anything but I think people care more
about their time than they do about the
money yes it's like cuz if you're a
parent you're like I got this is my one
night yeah it better be good yes yeah
it's like it's like we go to a
restaurant and you're like really this
is my entree yeah yeah I mean granted I
eat out every night but what I used to
be healthy when I used to be healthy and
I'd have that burger like once a month
you'd be like this is my burger yeah and
it's bad shitty burn now I have like two
burgers a day yeah and it's like I'm
always happy well that's good that's
good
but they need the thing they have in
common is that they're all difficult
things all martial arts are incredibly
difficult either
no bullshit martial arts either hit
someone you don't either hit you or they
don't you either win or you don't it's
like it's really cut and dry and it's
just a matter of how much effort you put
into it how much you've learned your
craft how much you've recognized your
weaknesses and shored up your holes and
your defense and your offense and then
you execute when you have to which just
means like when it's time for a fight
you perform you rise to the occasion or
you don't very similar to going onstage
not with the same consequences but very
similar in terms of like rising to the
occasion is it something you have to be
you have to like stand up you have to be
doing it like it's not you know Eddie
Murphy is amazing but the reason he
didn't just pop back into doing stand-up
is he understands I took it like like
I'm friends with him but he understands
you have to do it yes often to be I mean
that's by the way Chris Rock amazing
that he literally took like ten years
off and then got back into the ritual
and because it's a commitment yeah
there's nothing really that fancy about
it but like when it comes to UFC and you
have to you can't just pick it up right
but hunting you can pick it up right
well or no you can pick up some kinds of
hunting right like you could pick up
rifle hunting for certain animals all
you'd have to do is understand how to
keep your breath under control how to
not flinch when you pull a trigger how
to aim how to use a weapon properly and
have someone who puts you in a good
position where you know you have a guide
maybe that helps to bring you along bow
hunting is another level of commitment
that requires athleticism you're most
likely going to have to be in really
good shape because you're gonna have to
go into the mountains and just the
altitude alone and then going climbing
up hills you're going up several up and
down several thousand feet of elevation
in a day and there are grocery stores
there's grocery store grocery stores a
sort of wild up fascinating facet I
think because sometimes I'll look at you
know the the the community of comedians
and which I truly enjoy irie and you
obviously do too it's like you'll
sometimes run into
other communities that because there is
this solitary nature to it and then
there's this shared obsession like I
sometimes feel like chefs or people that
you know just even cooks that really get
true enjoyment out of it or have that
shared kind of you know like you the
prep time the kind of you're doing it
for yourself like you know a chef will
come to the table and say do you like
your meal but they don't need someone to
approve it they know so it's like with
stand-up it's it's the respect of your
peers - it's like it's great it's
gratifying the audience liking it but
there is something about the creation of
the material that is so profoundly
approving and the also the feedback that
you'd get from an audience that is
separate from like the supposed fan dare
you put an alarm I know what are you
trying to do
that's that means it's time to eat help
yeah no I mean I think many communities
that are like important communities have
are important to the people involved
they have they share a lot of common
aspects whether it's comedians or I mean
I think anything that's difficult right
if you there's not like is when you
think about comedians there's not that
many of us if you really stop to think
about there's 300 million people in this
country how many professional comedians
is there even a thousand I mean how many
people are really making a living off of
just doing stand-up I mean I would
venture that vibe be about 250 which is
amazing because by the way when I
started and and and you're around the
same period it was there was like nobody
there was no and by the way and
Seinfeld's era there was even less no
but Lenny Bruce's era there was like him
and Mort saw like one other guy yeah
yeah insane insane insane but now
there's like professors mm-hmm yeah I've
set up that ridiculous they're all
ridiculous I interviewed one guy he
wrote a book on Carl that's ridiculous
like general
I think that I think that stand up when
people it's like when we try and figure
out why a joke works so that we can
figure out how to do another one we lose
it like there is some magic there's some
magic not to get to there is something
of like there's a moment you know like
sometimes singer-songwriters talked
about this that like a song just appears
and some of it is we put in the time and
we we put in the work on ourselves and
kind of like self-reflection and we're
open to understanding who our point of
view is and we're embracing our
embarrassment that kind of opens us to
material yeah then and there's also the
more you do it and the more frequently
you do it the more you kind of have a
feel for it and when you take time off
that's what it's really weird like for
me I went on vacation recently to Italy
and then I went back on stage after like
12 days oh yeah you got to be immersed
in it all the time yeah but I also think
it's great to take those little vacation
oh you get a great perspective yeah it's
like suddenly you come back and you you
find the piece to the puzzle yeah it
work you need like little breaks but I
think that's the case with virtually
everything that we all need perspective
and you need discipline and you need
this the work ethic to do all to put all
the time in and do all the work but you
also need to think clearly and you need
an enthusiasm and sometimes that like
it's intelligent and it's discipline to
take a break yeah it is it's I find it
hard I mean I also like I'm somebody
like I always arrive in a market with an
hour of new material but and I have
there's plenty of people that they do a
special and then they take a break and
they hang out and they might kind of
slowly develop more material and to me
that is I don't know if that's yeah I'm
on both sides of it I understand the
value of it but I also
there's I don't I don't have control of
when the stuff's gonna come out so I
kind of want I want to be paying
attention when the material comes out
because sometimes you know the comedians
all have this it's like you had a great
idea but you didn't reach over for your
phone when you were falling asleep it's
gone it's gone yeah that's I jump up
I'll put I'll plug my ears and run out
of the room before my wife and kids are
talking fire yeah but my wife is awesome
about it like she I just have an idea
and I just have to say it to her so she
doesn't think I'm just playing with my
phone while we're at dinner I just go
yeah I got an idea
yeah and she'll let me do that but do
you have to do that if you don't do that
those things slip away they're like a
salmon in a river like grab it grab it
that's right let's get on the bear huh
we are the bear and then the elk is
watching and then Joe shoots the elk
what does an elk sound like like that
like 500 pounds and what are they just
are they vegetarian yes the other
vegetarians and what about a bear of you
ever shot a bear yes have you been to a
brown bear no black bear they're very
good they taste good and you have to
shoot them otherwise they eat everything
they eat each other they eat all the elk
babies they eat all the dear babies 50%
of all elk and deer fawns are or elk
calves and deer fawns are eaten by bears
50% yeah they devastate populations but
it's a balance of life you know it's the
circle of life yes but it's a balance
it's like you have to there has to be
some control predators yeah it's so
interesting it's a wild world and I've
been involved in it since like 2012
that's when I really got it and so when
you were growing up you were did did you
hunt for your kid I did a lot of fishing
yeah and where did you grow up well I
was born New Jersey but I lived in a lot
of places I lived in San Francisco for a
while from age 7 to 11 I lived in
Florida from 11 to 13 and then Boston
from 13 to 24 then New York is it nature
nurture are you because of you because
of life experience or were you born
like this I think there's a little bit
of both friend and also some of it is
you know you've been on this self you
know I I feel like characterizing this
is an insult but it's not but you are
somebody who's like I'm gonna self
improve myself yeah try to do that all
mentally physically everything lking but
I think you can always do better right
and so how do you find out if you can do
better
was that your mentality was that your
mentality in your early 20s a martial
arts yeah cuz if you if you don't try to
get better you wind up getting fucked up
like it's dangerous like you get hurt
no cuz I grew up from from high school
from the time I was fifteen till I was
21 all I did was travel the country and
fight I competed mr. Miyagi that's
that's really what I did that's all I
did
and so that the mentality had to be
constantly looking to improve figuring
out what you're doing wrong figuring out
how to do better and and being brutally
honest about your strengths and
weaknesses well yeah we'll be right back
it's a weird transition from that in the
stand-up comedy you know but I think
there's some parallels there's some
parallels because bombing on stage is
one of I've lost fights but bombing on
stage might feel worse it might be the
worst feeling you could ever feel other
than like physical pain yeah you know
there is something about it I always
think it's weird when people will say I
can never do that
and and in some ways I think comedians
we forget because there are particularly
at the beginning there are dark days
there are levels of humiliation that
most normal people would go don't ever
do this but comedians are such lunatics
that they're like that's fine that's
fine and by the way what they don't
realize is there's some of us that break
through and we can kind of figure it out
but there are some people that tries to
end up fail miserably have the
perseverance and never get better
that's true it's brutal there's certain
there's a certain mindset that never
improves and I don't know what that is I
don't know if it's a genetic thing if
it's a lack of brain horsepower there's
certain people that just never get it
they never get it and they try and they
don't and they just they never they
never figure their way through and there
is also something about I have a big
belief that comedy changes just as we
were talking about you know there's a
difference between political correctness
and like there is a cultural trend
that's almost kind of looking for
someone making a mistake that it's
shifted every I I call it decades so
like there is a in the 80s the you know
at the peak of kind of Seinfeld stand-up
which transformed into his show he
didn't need to provide any
autobiographical information
it was just jokes and there was also and
it was even Carlin at his peak he wasn't
he would provide some he was granted an
authenticity but it wasn't like you know
I struggle with whether I'm a good dad
or not it was but in this day and age
there is were such an exhibitionist and
voyeuristic culture that there is a
requirement of that where I think that
when I want stand up and you know and by
the way I also believe that when people
go all my stories everything's true
that's true
it's like it's not true it's it's it's
it's inspired by truth but but
authenticity is so important so when you
hear a comedian say my girlfriend or my
father and it's not true like that could
have worked in the 80s but I think now
the authenticity is the audience is like
oh that's a great joke but that's not
your girlfriend or your dad or your
brother or like Joe and I'm saying yeah
you have to maybe if you're like a real
absurdist and like yeah
obvious you're lying about everything
and the part of the joke oh yeah yeah
other than that yeah if you just make up
a story and by the way I also think that
in 10 years it might be all lights
mm-hmm but like now in this Kardashian
kind of reality show era people want to
see a little bit behind that you know I
mean I think that whether it's a Bert or
Segura there's these stories that people
relish in their lives in seeing their
lives and sharing the experience and and
that's something that wasn't necessarily
prevalent or maybe I'm just talking
about my ass no no I think you're right
I mean I think we didn't really know
much about comics back in that day we
just know about the prior did this 40
years ago yeah but he was an anomaly he
was he was you know so unique and
wouldn't it be amazing to see Pryor back
then on a podcast like see Pryor and
gene Wilder sitting down just shooting
the shit for hours was incredible
unbelievable well it's it's I remember
when I saw when I you know it was deep
into stand-up maybe like eight years and
I said when and consumed prior stuff
again after you know being in the
business it was so shocking how much had
been stolen from him like entire acts oh
my god yeah
you know that's in so and so special
that's in you know every comedian that
comes from a certain area does these
jokes and it was like he was really
revolutionary on so many different
levels forget the the true gift of like
being funny and autobiographical and
kind of vulnerable like people don't
realize that like when he did that show
in Long Beach it's like any open for
Patti LaBelle like and people were
coming in at the beginning it's like
yeah that's absurd that someone that was
someone special do you remember when he
was doing that special in Long Beach and
there was a guy who walked up right to
the stage with a camera
so I get the fuck out of here man go sit
down he left that in there he left it in
and and by the way people have to
understand that that wasn't you know
half those people were not they were
there to see Patti LaBelle yeah like
that's really amazing yeah like that's
super talent that's like you know like
and I think Chappelle has that Chappelle
has like just you know I don't know it's
like almost like a level of genius where
he's almost kind of like I'm gonna set
up a hurdle for myself
yeah it's absurd well should I being
also constantly working man like he just
popped into the belly room two nights
ago she showed up does a set in a belly
room she does a set in that in the main
room goes over the improv constantly
adapting around you know I've told this
story before but it's it's a crazy one I
was in Denver I was doing the comedy
works and it's Friday night at 10
o'clock show I get done I go into the
green room Dave's there I go what are
you doing man he goes oh what's up Joe I
was just I decided to come by like he
decided to come by meaning he flew into
Denver on a private jet with no show set
up because he knew that I was gonna be
there and wanted to do a set so he just
does what he wants like he just shows
that when I could you want to go up he
goes oh should I go fuck yeah hold on a
second I run back onstage I tell the
audience I go come back sit down Dave
Chappelle's here they're like what and
so everybody comes back in and sits down
I go ladies and gentlemen please welcome
Dave Chappelle he goes up in that's 40
minutes just free just does it but he's
just doing that all the time it's not
all for money it's all for the craft
it's all for performing working out the
material just travels around and does
these things yeah see that's like 18
shows at the Warner over two and a half
weeks just does just is always always on
top of it you know and that is why it's
not just his his obvious talent and his
brilliance but also his work ethic all
those things yeah I mean it's there's
not one without the other you don't just
get the guy who takes six months off and
he's just brilliant always and you wake
him up but he's got the best set ever
know it's like he's constantly grind
constantly yeah and I think with ours
with this artform that we do it requires
diligence it requires Oh ain't it is
totally diligent yeah it is you write on
paper do you write on a laptop I do I
don't even have my stuff here but I'm
always putting stuff down but like I you
know some of its bits and nubs you know
like these are notes from like Ireland I
mean I love being in other cultures
because I not only do you see the
eccentric side of their culture but it
also exposes how absurd our culture is
yeah but ya know it some of it is just
and also you know it's just just absurd
you know it's like also in another
country as opposed to cities it's so
different and I am an American so I I
can just kind of horse around for 10
minutes and sometimes I'm doing the
equivalent of like the subway joke you
know like when people would come to New
York and look I was on the subway and
you're like don't do that
but what I'm like in Spain I'm like you
know what I'm probably doing the
equivalent of a subway joke but they
appreciate the research and I really do
I do I am fascinated by other cultures
and I am fascinated you know in kind of
observing different things and
understanding the history it's kind of
like I think that like visiting other
countries is kind of similar to talking
to like a a really drunk angry guy like
if you're talking to a drunk angry guy
and you're like I understand you I
understand that like for 400 years the
English didn't let you make cheese like
the drunk angry guys like yeah thank you
for understanding that you're I mean and
that's you know they're not asking for
it but it's fun
so do you mostly just write down notes
and then work those notes out on out on
stage yeah some of it it's you know like
when I was in Ireland uh and I I went to
Donegal which I love and I what is
Donegal it's a county in the
northwestern part of the Republic that
should be part of Northern Ireland but
was so Catholic that the British really
you know you guys can keep that one like
its way up there and it's kind of
relatively isolated so there's there's
not American tourists it's really kind
of just people that live there and I
spend a week and then I did a show in
Letterkenny and and that kinda was like
picking on them but it was not you know
not the roasting form but it was just
you know cuz it's all Gayle talk you
know like they speak Gaelic
that's so weird was it sound like it
sounds nothing like English it's it's
really weird cuz it's you know you does
have some English sounds in it not
really
well there'll be an English word that
they'll just I think they add a sheen to
the end of an English word they're like
oh you have to go to the airport of
Sheen and you're like well that's but I
can barely under it's kind of like the
Scottish yeah I can barely understand
when they're speaking English but I
loved it
Northern Ireland's very interesting in
that regard I was in northern I was in
Belfast and listening to people that
were drunk talk oh yeah you might as
well been on another planet well by the
way those the British Isles including
the Republic of Ireland there is
something so tribal they're like there's
something really interesting as an
American that you know we have this cute
notion of like I'm Irish hey I drink too
much whereas like the the Irish and the
English and the Scottish and the Welsh
there is something that there it kind of
comes out 11 o'clock at night like
you'll see a different side like I was
at this I was at this house party in
darling girl and the next day I ran into
the guy he goes and there was probably
ten adults there he's like yeah Jim we
drank 29 glasses 21 nine bottles of wine
I'm like what and I know that I maybe
drink one of them but and now I don't
think all the adults drank you know by
the way in Ireland not everyone drinks
it's just the people that do drink
really do it yeah so there's like I
think someone told me the percentage of
I you know Irish that drink is smaller
than the rest of Europe but the
percentage that do drink and I can't
even matter was remember what I was
gonna say but it's just I could talk
about Ireland forever cuz it's so fat oh
the but around 11 o'clock at night
there's something that happens and by
the way this guy was not drunk but I was
at this cocktail for this dinner party
and the kids are everyone has five kids
so there's like five kids there's 400
kids in the backyard and this guy's just
railing into me he's like he's like
you're you know the media has already
decided that it's Kamla Harris how can
you decide and I'm like wait a minute
I'm like first of all what are you
talking about and he just consumes he's
doing all this research and this guy you
know but he's convinced because it's
camel Harris the media big big brothers
have decided it's Kamla Harris and I'm
like wow and it's just fascinating but
it's how do they know we don't know a
fucking goddamn thing about their people
the the some of it is and by the way
people were kind of how do you know this
and some of it but I bring that up
because there was behind it was this
tribalism kind of like this you know and
obviously the Irish are very different
than the English but there was something
about this that was you know you you see
it a little bit you know with
southerners that are kind of like we're
gonna give you how kind of thing but
like and I've see that you see it in
England all the time like 11 o'clock
you're like what happened to like Hugh
Grant you know it's just like a
different world well once they abandoned
all the the niceties you need to see
yeah yeah with a couple of pints and
it's super authentic but it's also like
that culture and I know that your idli
but like the whole like oh you know it
would be fun is to go out and drink a
bunch of pints and then we're getting a
fight but to me that sounds
but you would like that wouldn't you no
no I'm not interested in bar fights
terrible idea it's how people die people
get crippled but people do that all the
time
yeah that's ind dick guns yeah conscious
do you see that oh man yeah I just saw
that video really fucked up I'll send it
to you hope he's alright he's definitely
not alright
he's a frail little fella you gotta get
out of here I do oh that's a I have a
meeting
what do you have what's going on you're
a fuckin mover and a shaker you're a PI
out here no I'm not at all but like I
have this meeting of you know for a TV
show
it's a producer meeting but it is the
last class you do you do the wadiya is
it hard for you to balance because I
know you've done a lot of acting gigs
yeah I know you love stand-up is it hard
for you to find like the time balance
it's it's different because I love
stand-up I am a stand-up it's something
that I'll have to do I'm sure it's the
same with you it's like it you're gonna
do it until you die yeah right I think
what people like I can't believe
Seinfeld went back to stand up I'm like
of course he did he's a comedian but the
acting is something that I love but I
don't view it as an income source eview
it as a live view it as it's it's it's
something that and by the way you're a
good actor thank you I love it I love
playing a character I love playing a bad
guy I love kinda it seems fun justifying
you know every actor wants to play
someone flawed but I love playing these
people that you don't have any sense of
doubt while you're doing something in a
scene like you look this is all I can do
and afterwards I love the moment when
you're at craft service and there's
somebody that looks at you like the
character they're like huh you know I
mean I usually I used to play it a lot
of nerds so people would be like
dismissive of me and I'm annoyed that
I'm like look I'm not the character but
I love it when I'm playing someone who's
kind of doing something maniacal and
people like why would you do that look
I'm just playing a guy that would kidnap
somebody I'm not gonna kidnap you I
enjoy that kind of stuff but I just I do
too many things as it is so I've kind of
sworn off all acting
really yeah a ban on it a couple years
ago what if it was the perfect role I
mean it's it's highly inefficient but
yeah I just think it's so fun like I
sent you that link to the movie and I
want you to watch it because I think if
you watch it you're gonna go oh I get it
oh I do get it I get it I just can't do
it but it's like that was like I
remember that was like three weeks and
ever you know in weekends I had shows it
was really inefficient it was all night
shoots it was an utter insanity but
you're happy with the result but that's
one of those where it worked
working also it's it's more experienced
in life in general that I think enhances
your standup but I think it's difficult
for us to look at it that way but I
think the more different things you do
the more different experiences that you
have the more your perspective gets
enhanced yeah and there's there's
moments that are almost parallel that
you know obviously as a comedian we love
the laughs and we love kind of creating
changing someone's mood and similar to
you know alleviating the tension and
stand-up in acting like sitting in that
tension and just kind of twisting a
knife in the audience it's kind of
exhilarating and something unique that
ya only gonna get in acting yes yeah Jim
Gaffigan you're a bad motherfucker
please tell everybody when your new
special drops Friday it's Friday I think
Friday the 16s what's today Wednesday
yes you have two days folks two days two
days but they can add it to their watch
list but next time you go to Amazon to
buy your paper towels your socks just
check it out check it out bitches please
thank you sir thank you about pleasure
thank you
thanks for nicotine gum - vomited I
totally
[Music]